docker version
Docker run nginx   #always check first locally and then internet, also its same like docker run nginx:latest
Docker run -d ngin - it runs it in the background which means you can still control the cli
Docker attach "name of the container" - get you back to the container (because you did -d)
docker ps - lists information about all running containers
Docker ps -a   -   lists information about all running and stopped containers
Docker stop "put the ID or the name"
Docker history "image name" - you will see the layers of that image, if you see there "missing" then it means this layer uses another image's
Docker rm "put the ID or the name" - remove container
Docker images - show all the installed images
Docker rmi "name of the image" - removes the image, but make sure no container is running that image
Docker pull "name of image" - download the image so it will be already installed locally
docker run --name "new name of the image" nginx:1.14-alpine
Docker run redis:4.0   -  it will run version 4.0.14 of redis
Docker run -it "image name" - if the image is a script or something that requries you to input something (readline) then without "it", you will just see the output (writeline).
Docker run -p 80:5000 "image name" - forward 80 to 5000
Docker run -v /opt/datadir:/var/lib/mysql mysql   -   copying whats in the container to the docker so it will be saved
Docker inspect "container name/id" - more info regarding the container
Docker logs "name of the container" - logs
Docker -e APP_COLOR=blue   -  we are editing the APP_COLOR which located in docker inspect
Docker -e MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=1111
docker build Dockerfile -t filelocation/thecusotmerapp - download an image from local cpmputer
Docker push thecusotmerapp - publishes this image to this docker hub
Docker run ubuntu sleep 5 - runs the sleep program for 5 seconds and then exits
Docker build -t ubuntu-sleeper . = the . At the end means "its in current directory"
Docker run ubuntu-sleeper
Docker un ubuntu-sleeper sleep 10=docker run ubuntu-sleeper 10
Docker run python:3.6 cat /etc/*release*


Docker run ubuntu --network=none/host
Docker network create network --driver bridge --subnet 1.1.1.1/24 --gateway 1.1.1.2 hellothisisaname
Docker network ls
Docker network inspect host/bridge/none


Docker volume create data_volume  = it creates the folder "data_volume" in /var/lib/docker/volumes
Docker run -v data_volume:var/lib/mysql mysql  =  /var/lib/mysql is the default path of mysql image and this path is inside the CONTAINER, all data written by the data base, stored in fact in data_volume (which is in the host), even if the container is destroyed, the date is still active
Docker run -v /data/mysql:/var/lib/mysql mysql  =  mounting to /data/mysql
Docker run --mount type=bind,source=/data/mysql,target=/var/lib/mysql mysql


Docker-compose -v -
Docker-compose up -d  -  run the compose in detached mode
Docker-compose ps 
Docker-compose up --scale database=3 - create 3 containers of what is configured in "database"

Docker login private-registry  -  it will ask for username and passowrd
Docker run -d -p 5000:5000 --name registry registry:2  - 

Every image is based on OS or an image which is based on OS

Image=OS, software, application code

Images are defined based on the dockerfile

Containers are not meant to run operate systems, but a specific task or a process such as:
Application server, data base, or some computation or analyses.
Once the task completes or crashed, then the container exists.

Ubunto container exited because it has BASH function which listens for terminal inputs, because docker by default doesn’t attach a terminal when it runs (container), then the BASH process finished and as a result the container existed as wll

FROM Ubuntu
ENTRYPOINT ["sleep"]
CMD["5"]

Docker run --entrypoint sleep2.0 ubuntu-sleeper 10

By default a container is attached to a "bridge" network

If I have 2 dockerfiles which their first 3 layers for example, are the same.
So docekr won't create the 3 layers again when it builds dockerfile2, it will reuse them again from the cache.this way its faster and efficent and saves disk space

Docker creates a container based on the 5 layers and also creates a sixth layer (called container layer), it's used to store data created by the container such as log files, temp files or just any files modified by the user.
This layer is alive as long as the container alives
And this image layer is shared with all the containers which use this image (because what I said earlier
If you want to create a new file in the container, then it will create it in the sixth layer because remember the files in the image layers (5 of them) are READ.

Images layer are read layers
Container layer is read write layer

When the container is deleted, the writable layer is also deleted. The underlying image remains unchanged.


I think all containers are located in /var/lib/docker/volumes folder

Docker -H-1.1.1.1 run nginx  -  if your docker cli is located somewhere else (e.g laptop)

Docker run --cpus=.5 ubuntu  -  this will make sure that the container won't take more than 50% Cpu of the host
Docker run --memory=100m ubuntu  -  the container can use only up to 100 mega bytes

When you modifying the image file (remember READ) then what will happen is that docker will copy and paste those changes to the container layer (6).
So if you edit the app.by, then you will see a new app.py in the sixth layer.
Meaning, that the image will stay the same all the time.
If you delete the container, then all the changes will be deleted (because they are stored in the sixth layer). Solution for that is the "volumes".
You can only "edit" the image with the build command.

If you have 2 jenkins containers which use the same volume, then when you conenct to the webui of both of them, you will see the same jobs

https://www.sumologic.com/blog/kubernetes-vs-docker/










Docker compose - networking:

Version 1:
Docker compose attaches all the containers it runs to a default bridge network,
And then use links to enable communication between the containers.

Version 2:
Docker compose automatically creates a dedicated bridge network for this application,
And then attaches all containers to that new network.
All containers are then able to communicate to each other using each other's service name.
Basically they don't need to use links in v2 of docker compose.
You can simply get rid of all links you mentioned in v1, when you come work a file from v1 to v2.

Docker compose version - the differnece is just the format between each version













Version: '3'
Services:
 web:
   image: nginx
   ports:
    - 8080:80
 Database:
  image: redis
 








Docker Engine:
Docker CLI - command line interface to perform actions such as running containers, removing images, etc. And it uses the RESP API to interact with the docker deamom.
REST API - API interface that programs can use to talk to the deamon and provide instructions. You can create your own tools using this RESP API.
Docker Deamon -  Background proccess that manages docker objects such as: images, containers, volumes and networks







Every new process on the container is a new process on the host, so on the host it can be PID8 but on the container it will be PID1

By default there is no restriction on resource allocation in docker, so a container can consume resources as much as it wants






In linux we have for example base images (which we sprcify in docker file) like ubuntu, fedora, etc..
In windows we have 2:Window Server Core,   Nano Server.


In hyper V isolation, there is an isolation between the containers



